Hello there! In this video, we are going to talk about futures.
One of the drawbacks of the C++ thread is that it does not provide any direct way to return a value.
We have been using shared variables to transfer data from one thread to another.
However, this raises the issue of data races.
So we had to use locks to protect access to this variable.
In this section, we are moving away from threads towards higher level objects.
We have already looked at the condition variables which help us synchronize different threads.
And now we are going to look at the future and promise classes which help us transfer data between threads.
We can set up a shared state between a future object and a promise object, and this can be used to
transfer data in a thread-safe way.
We do not need to provide any shared data variables or any explicit locking.
Obviously, there will be something like that happening in the background, but we do not need to know
about it.
We can just concentrate on what our program does.
In the last couple of videos, we were using read and write threads. These are an example of what is known
as the producer-consumer model.
You have a thread called the producer, which generates some data or calculates a result and another
thread, which is the consumer, which is going to use that data.
We have a promise object in the producer thread, which will set the value in the shared state, so
that is similar to the writer thread which updated the value of a shared variable.
We have a consumer thread which is waiting for that data.
The future object is waiting for the shared state to be updated.
So that is similar to calling wait() in the reader thread.
And then when the shared state is updated, the future object will return the value.
So that is equivalent to the reader thread returning from wait() and being able to access the shared variable.
In computing, a "future" represents a value which has not been computed yet.
In C++ concurrency, the future class is one of the most important data structures. It is not only used
with the promise, it is also used in lots of asynchronous operations.
We do not normally create it directly. When we have a promise and a future, we create the promise first
and that will give us a future which is associated with it.
There are also other asynchronous operations which will return a future, so these operations will
go and run in the background and then when they finish, the future will hold the result.
The future class is defined in the  header. It is templated. The parameter is the type of the
value that we are going to receive.
It has a get() member function which will obtain the value when it is ready.
This member function will block until the operation is complete and then it will return,
and the return value
will be the return value from the operation.
They are also member functions which wait without fetching. The wait() member function will block
until the operation is complete and there are wait_for() and wait_until() which block with a timeout.
If you call get() and the operation has already finished, then it willl return immediately.
So as an alternative to calling get(), you could call one of these member functions to see when the
operation is completed and then call get() to get the results immediately.
As we said, when you use a promise and a future together, you first create the promise.
So this is a promise that's going to return an int,
and then you get the future from the promise.
And you do that by calling the get_future() member of the promise.
Futures are move-only objects, so you need to initialize them by move.
And once you have done this, that will set up a shared state between the promise instance and the future
instance, and that can be used to send a result from the promise to the future in a thread-safe way.
You would put this code in main() before you start the threads, and then you would start a producer
thread which has a reference to the promise as one of its arguments and a consumer thread which has
a reference to the future as one of its arguments.
And then in the consumer thread, when it is ready to receive the result, it will call the get() member
function on the future, and that will wait until the result is ready and then it will obtain it.
Okay, so that's it for this video.
In the next video, we are going to look at the promise class and then have some code which uses both
together.
But until then, keep coding!